In the last lecture we talked about the model factory states where we can create a model with specific
attributes that are overridden from the generic model factory which usually is using faker to generate
some random data.
So we have the outer and profile models which we don't directly use inside our application but yet we
will use starts to show you an example because they are related to using one to one relation in the
sense that each outer has one individual profile and it might just make sense to generate outer together
with a profile because it always probably would need to have a profile.
So for this let's just generate model factories for those two models using peach bee artisan make factory.
So we'll start with outer factory and use the flag model because it is for the outer model.
And immediately let's go ahead and create a second one profile of factory
for the profile model.
OK so we have those two model factories inside database factories.
So this is the outer factory.
And this is the profile factory.
Now let's take a look at the database and go to the outer stables so you can see that it doesn't have
anything else than the timestamps and I.D. and the profiles also doesn't have anything else them I.D.
timestamps but also it has relation to specific outer using the outer I.D. column.
Now we'll leave it as it is.
So we won't generate any random data but we could for example generate the dates but what are we gonna
do is we'll use some additional callbacks that we can do after the model is made.
Which means it is being created but not saved yet or after the model is actually saved inside the database.
So what we can do is the factory can have another method and one of them is after creating sorry I've
misspelled the name after creating and now the first argument it accepts is the class name which would
be the same as outer.
So we are working with an outer here.
So we do a callback after our new outer model was created using the factory and it also has a callback
which would be a closure.
And the first argument of disclosure would always be an instance of the model we have just created.
So obviously this would be an outer in this case.
And second is faker.
So the reason why we have to specify this arguments like that is because it's larval actually calling
our closure and passing these arguments in this specific order.
So in after creating it all it is always passing the model that was just created in the first parameter.
And the second is them is the instance of the faker and now what we can do with that is we can actually
assign a new profile when we create an outer so let's take a look and remind ourselves how we can assign
another model in one to one relation and you can check that out inside the Vicky.
The link is provided.
So we'll generate the outer using the factory so we will already have the instance of it and it would
already be saved because we are doing a callback after creating an in larval terms make means that mobile
instances created and create means that the model instance was created and then saved
so we have to create a new instance of the profile model and we can do that using the factory and then
we will just create a relation between those two models so we already have outdoor and as we know outdoor
has this profile method which will give us access to their relation so we do outer profile and then
we have to provide our relation of this profile.
So basically this would be the profile model and now we have to actually create it so we can use the
factory met factory function inside the model factory and what we are gonna do is we will create a new
instance of the profile model but usually we use this factory function and then called Create method
on it which basically created the model and saved it.
Now we don't need to save it we just need to call make.
So this would just create a new instance of the profile model using model factory and then this would
actually save it as a relation and also save it to the database as you can see
so now we can save the changes.
And let's clear this and run Tinker.
So we tie peach B artisan Tinker and now let's create a new instance of the
outer
we call create on it because we want it to be created and saved.
So we have a new instance of the outer and it happens to have ideas of five so let's read it from the
database.
So we have out or find ideas five as we get to return here and now we should be able to read the profile
using that using the attribute of the outer model
and you'll see that we've got returned the relation of the outer which is profile so it returns the
instance of the profile model.
So now let's clear the screen.
So it is visible and let's just type outer so you can see that we have just created an instance of the
outer model with which always would have our profile associated to it.
So let's check that inside the database.
So this is our brand new outer.
And when we go to profiles you can see that there is a new profile created with the outer I.D. of 5
which is just this relation that we have just created.
So that's not the only callback that is available out there.
We can also create another one.
So this is after creating and we can also use after making so you can choose when you would like to
do something extra.
And in this case we'll be calling this function this closure after the new outer was created and saved.
And in this case after making we'll be calling this after the new instance of the outer model was instantiated
but it wasn't safe yet.
So this is supposed to be actually very useful for our application right now because as I've said we
are not using this outer and profile models but just so you know this is the way you can instantiate
some models using model factories and then create some relations or do some additional stuff after they
are created.